>> Mathew DesLauriers: What we're gonna
do is we're just gonna chat about some of
the stuff around three.js.
I'm just gonna introduce
some of these concepts and
then once we introduce them, we're
gonna actually open up our own code and
start to create our own three.js scene.
So before we get too far into three.js
there's this, these terms that I've been
using already called material, and
geometry and so what are these terms?
So a material in 3-D.
This describes,
at least in the context of three.js,
it describes the surface
quality of a mesh.
And so for an example,
you may have a sphere and
the sphere is exactly always white.
It looks like this.
It doesn't always look like a sphere.
It looks more like a circle.
It looks two dimensional.
But, it is actually a sphere and
we can tell it's a sphere by using
a wire frame rendering mode.
So this is a very useful mode,
it's an attribute and
it's a flag that you just set to true and
it allows you to visualize the mesh
itself because again if it's just white,
you can't really tell what it is.
But when it's a wire frame, you can
give a sense of its structure and so on.
And so that's,
this is called a mesh basic material and
if you wanted to do a solid color or if
you wanted to do a solid wire frame color,
it can be any color can be red or
blue or whatever.
Then you'd use a mesh basic material.
And this means that there's
no lighting information.
It's always gonna be that color no matter
where it's placed in the scene and
no matter what lights might be around it.
This is another material
that's really handy to use for
debugging purposes,
it's called mesh normal material and
it allows us to see and
visualize the faces of the mesh.
So in a 3D mesh like in this
sphere you can really see that
this sphere is curving around like that.
And it gives us a better sense
of what the topology looks like.
So it's very useful for debugging.
And then when we start to try and
replicate more of like,
what's around us with lighting,
shading, and
lighting that's where we will use
what's called a MeshStandardMaterial.
Standard just meaning like it's a standard
pipeline or something like that.
And it starts to introduce shading and
shadows and lights so if you don't have
a light in your scene, you're not
going to be able to see anything.
Because just like in real life,
if you turn the lights off
you can't see anything.
And so the standard material tries
to be a bit more like real life.
And just another thing to note is that,
these two images are using the same
material, sorry these two.
The only difference in this material
is that one of them is flat shaded.
And one of them is smooth shaded.
And those are concepts that
are kinda handy to know.
And then the other thing
I was mentioning and
the other thing we were seeing in
the documentation is geometry.
So Geometry is just the actual
typology that we're working with.
Whether it's a sphere, or
in this case a TorusGeometry, or
it could be a BoxGeometry, or
you could load models from the web.
We're gonna just stick
with simple shapes for
now just because we
want to keep it simple.
But you can get more advanced, you can
create your own geometries, and so on.
So that's geometry.
So far we have material,
we have geometry, then the next
thing to understand would be mesh.
Mesh is where we, we take those two
concepts, we take geometry and we take
material and we combine them into a sort
of wrapper around those two concepts.
And so let's say we wanted
to draw multiple circles or
squares in this case two boxes,
instead of having two separate
box geometries,
we're gonna have one box geometry,
and we just create that once, and
then we use two different meshes.
And so one of the things that trips
a lot of people up when they start
with 3D is that, let's say they
want to draw a hundred circles or
a hundred squares,
they create a hundred box geometries,
and then they're performance
is gonna get really impacted.
Their app is gonna be really slow because
they have a 100 different of these
big structures that are like, imagine them
as like, really heavy data structures.
And so what we actually wanna do is
we just wanna use the same instance,
the same box geometry or
the same sphere geometry and
then basically replicate it
like clone it many many times.
And that's what we're doing here,
we have one box geometry that's shared
amongst two different instances.
And it's very cheap an very
fast to create instances and
to render lots of instances
of the same geometry.
You can also scale each instance
differently, just like in
the morning when we were scaling
different grid cells, different radiuses.
This is the same kind of concept.
We can scale each of
those in different ways.
We can apply different colors,
different materials and so on.
And so
when you combine all that together and
you mash up a bunch of meshes,
you have like say 50 meshes or
100 meshes, combined,
it forms the scene that you are rendering.
In this case we have a scene which is,
lots of different cubes, different colors,
and it looks a bit like that.
And this is sort of one of
the things we're gonna try and
aim for in the afternoon.
The last concept to sort of understand
of all these terms that we're using like
mesh and geometry and
material is a camera, and so.
Camera when we're talking about 3D is a
virtual, almost like a virtual eye piece,
or a virtual way of looking at the world.
And in this case the camera might be
somewhere in the air just like if you're
in a helicopter or something like that.
And we can see that it's
giving us a sense of depth.
We can see that the squares in the top and
the distant are sort of getting
smaller and growing smaller.
So this is what
a PerspectiveCamera is called.
OrthographicCamera, this
is another type of camera.
Three.js has two main types,
one of them is called Perspective,
one of them is called Orthographic.
And it just changes the way
that we see this virtual world.
So when we have a perspective camera,
we are seeing two-point perspective
sort of like a vanishing points on the
sides, you can imagine like if you've ever
drawn one of those scenes where you have a
point on left and a point on the right and
all the lines go towards the points,
that's a similar concept.
Or you can also see that there's
foreshortening in the way that the square
gets smaller and
gets sort of noticeably more distant.
Whereas here with an orthographic camera.
Everything looks kind of flat and
it looks kind of two-dimensional and
it's actually a very good camera for
our sort of artsy purposes.
And it has some other uses as well.
So Monument Valley, if you guys
are familiar with that video game,
it's using a sort of form of orthographic
camera to produce some of their lines and
some of their shapes.
And as well,
if you wanted to create 2D artworks, or
if you wanted to create maybe a game or
some sort of visualization that's 2.5D or
2D, then you might be using
an orthographic camera.
And when you combine all that you end
up with an image, or in this case,
an animation.
And that's what we're going to be doing
today is a bit more animation now rather
than just still images.
Here's another animation.
This example is a little
bit more complicated,
but the code for it is also in the repo.
And you can see it's really
just a bunch of cubes.
It's using with a graphic perspective,
the cubes are scaling in and
out and actually, they're scaling in and
out using a noise function,
just the same type of noise function
we're using earlier in the day.
And they're moving up constantly and
eventually they're disappearing and
eventually they're starting
again from the bottom.
So that's maybe something
we can build our way up to.
We'll start simple,
just like we did this morning.
And we might not get there necessarily,
but we'll try and get as close as we can.
Here's another output of the same
generative sort of loop, or
generative artwork.
Yeah, you can see that
it's really just cubes.
And one of the things actually that
I did in this particular piece is
that instead of randomly generating
cubes all over the place,
I'm generating them within
a three dimensional grid.
But that's something we can maybe get into
later, because it's a bit more tricky.
And we just want to start
with the basics first.